at the White House an attempt to use the
verdict from the international court of
justice as a kind of vindication we
simply have said consistantly we find
that that that that claim is is
unfounded um and you know the court also
did not find uh Israel guilty of
genocide a final decision on whether
this is genocide is likely years away
but the court did order Israel to avoid
civilian casualties and to allow more
Aid into the Gaza Strip the US says it
has asked Israel do
both but the bombing continues the
starvation spreading if it continues
this will likely end up before the UN
Security Council which has the power to
impose economic sanctions ban the sale
of weapons or even authorize the use of
force but many experts believe the us
simply will not let that happen they
really are not going to abandon Israel
when it comes to Gaza they will put
pressure on them to behave more
rationally and I think they're going to
start putting pressure on them soon to
wind down the main part of the conflict
but they're not going to vote against
them in the security Council US
President Joe Biden did get involved
into one aspect of the war on Gaza he
spoke on the phone with the Amir of kar
and the president of Egypt we were told
they're discussing a potential deal for
a ceasefire in exchange for some of the
captives now usually when the key
players get involved it could be an
indication that something's getting
close but an official here says nothing
is imminent Patty khaine Al jazer
Washington make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz